1. Clean up the country
2. What is the Population Ecology?
3. My Green Planet
4. How much water do we really need?
5. A future based on renewable energy


1.
Are you interested in ecology?
Do you know that in average a family in Kazakhstan throws away about 500 plastic bottles a year? They will decompose for 400 years!
Can you imagine there are 120 endangered species in the Red Book of Kazakhstan?
Are you familiar with the environmental disaster of the Aral Sea?
What do you think about an opportunity to use inexhausible resources?
Join us to learn more about ecology!
(button) Join

2. Our course is divided into five modules which cover the most important spheres of ecology.These modules will introduce you to the ways you can help you country. We will learn how you can take care of animals, rescue a local area from clogging and save energy resources.
Let's get down to the first module!
(button) Begin with the first module

Video:
Before the appearance of cities, waste was an environmentally friendly material, quickly rotted, and did not harm the environment. However, with the development of cities, it became clear that countless packages, of synthetic materials cannot decompose quickly. Solid household waste is a source of unpleasant odors and a breeding ground for carriers of various infectious diseases (bacteria, rodents, and insects).

The main threat from waste is that, for instance, plastic can take anywhere from 20 to 500 years to decompose, depending on the material and structure.

Kazakhstan has accumulated about 43 billion tons of waste, of which only 5 percent is recycled. The main reason for this is that waste processing plants do not have enough raw materials for processing, since there is no culture of separate waste collection in the country. If we continue to simply take it to landfills, our descendants will have nowhere to build houses because land tends to run out, and some waste begins to decompose only after centuries.

Start with yourself!

Divide all the garbage into four categories: paper, household waste, glass, and plastic.

The paper container is designed for newspapers, magazines, leaflets, catalogs, books, cardboard, cardboard boxes, and corrugated cardboard. Do not throw the paper that has come into contact with fat, as well as milk and juice boxes into the paper container.

We use plastic containers to collect bottles, containers from cleaning products, aluminum cans, metal cans, milk, and juice boxes. It is also designed for collecting plastic fruit crates.

This kind of containers is designed to collect all kinds of glass. However, there are some limitations here as well. Make sure that you throw an empty bottle, pre-washed and without labels, into the glass container. In addition, do not throw away broken glass, ceramics and porcelain, mirrors, and light bulbs.

Containers for household waste are designed to collect organic products. In them, you can throw out leftover food.

Then find similar dumpsters in your city and take out the garbage there.

Perhaps you will say that it takes a lot of time. You're right, it really is. But you don't want our whole country to drown in garbage dumps.

You can also use plastic bottles again. Let's find out how you can turn them into beautiful flower vases or kitchen organisers for cereals!
